PART-I-GENERAL ENGLISH
Marks 50
Each question carries 2 marks:

Directions (Q.1-4): In the following questions, a sentence is given. Find out which part of the sentence has an error and choose the option corresponding to it. If the sentence is free from error, choose 'No error'.

1. Everyone considered him as a brave man but he fled from the battlefield.
a) Everyone considered him as (ANSWER - The word 'as' is superfluous after 'considered')
b) A brave man
c) But he fled from the battlefield
d) No error

2. During the rainy season many rivers overflew their banks and caused great difficulty
a) During the rainy season
b) Many rivers overflew their banks (ANSWER - 'Overflew' should be 'overflowed')
c) And caused great difficulty
d) No error

3. He was borne of poor parents but brought up in an affluent family
a) He was borne of poor parents (ANSWER - 'Borne' should be 'born' (past participle of 'bear' meaning to give birth))
b) But brought up
c) In an affluent family
d) No error

4. It is a known fact that time does not return back once it is lost
a) It is a known fact
b) That time does not return back (ANSWER - 'Back' is redundant after 'return')
c) Once it is lost
d) No error

Directions (Q.5-6): Rearrange the parts of the sentence in correct order and mark the correct option from the given four alternatives.

5. The reference
P is simultaneously a matter
Q to the size of a vulnerable community
R of legal as well as political and ethical perspective
Correct Sentence: The reference (Q) to the size of a vulnerable community (P) is simultaneously a matter (R) of legal as well as political and ethical perspective.
a) RPQ
c) QPR (ANSWER)
b) QRP
d) PRQ

6. Do people take
P rejection of every candidate ?
Q the trouble to go and
R vote only to register their
Correct Sentence: Do people take (Q) the trouble to go and (R) vote only to register their (P) rejection of every candidate ?
a) RQP
c) PRQ
b) RPQ
d) QRP (ANSWER)

Directions (Q.7-8): Out of the four given alternatives, choose the one which can be substituted for the given words/sentence.

7. The depository where state records and documents are preserved.
a) Emporium
c) Library
b) Archive (ANSWER)
d) Museum

8. The firing of many guns at the same time to mark an occasion is called
a) Fusillade
c) Attack
b) Salvo (ANSWER)
d) Volley

Directions (Q.9-10): In the following questions four alternatives are given for idioms and phrases. Choose the one that best expresses the meaning of the given idiom/phrase.

9. A Cut above
a) To object at something
b) Quite taller
c) Rather superior (ANSWER)
d) A little rougher than

10. As daft as a brush
a) Extremely old
b) Extremely kind
c) Extremely sick
d) Extremely silly (ANSWER)

Directions (Q.11-15): In the following passage there are blanks, each of which has been numbered. These numbers are printed below the passage and against each, four options are suggested, one of which fits the blank appropriately. Find out the appropriate word from the given options.

PASSAGE:
There is a considerable amount of research about the factors that make a company innovate. So, is it possible to create an environment (11) for innovation? This is a particularly pertinent (12) for India today. Massive problems in health, education, etc. (13) be solved using a conventional approach, but (14) creative and innovative solutions that can ensure radical change and (15).

11. a) stimuli
b) conducive (ANSWER)
c) incentive
d) facilitated

12. a) objective
c) doubt
b) controversy
d) issue (ANSWER)

13. a) cannot (ANSWER)
b) should
c) never
d) must

14. a) necessary
b) apply
c) need (ANSWER - The structure is "but [they] need creative solutions")
d) requires

15. a) advantages
b) increase
c) chaos
d) growth (ANSWER)

Directions: (Q.No.16-25), Read the passage given below and answer the questions that follow:

FULL PASSAGE:
With Lok Sabha speaker Purno Sangma abolishing the discretionary quota for gas and telephone connections enjoyed by members of parliament last week, demands are being made for doing away with the same privilege for Union ministers. Imposing a fine of Rs.50 lakh on former petroleum minister Satish Sharma for arbitrarily allotting petrol pumps, the Supreme Court had said last year that absolute discretion was an anathema to the Constitution and advised the 'judicious use of discretionary powers. Citing the use of the so-called privileges as "prejudicial to public interest and a breach of trust", HD Shourie of Common Cause has sought the Prime Minister's intervention to "stop this practice of discretionary quota for ministers to present to the public an image of clean functioning of the government." In a letter written to the Cabinet Secretary, he has drawn the PM's attention to the misuse of this privilege by more than a dozen ministers. In the railways, discretionary quota covers platform stalls, passes, tickets and berths on trains. In civil aviation and tourism, the largesse includes free international air tickets, out-of-turn seats and stalls in ITDC hotels.

16. The tone of the speaker in the passage is that of
a) A disciplinarian
c) Concern (ANSWER - The passage expresses worry and a call for action regarding misuse of power)
b) Relief
d) Prohibition

17. ".... he has drawn the PM's attention...." In this line 'He' refers to
a) Speaker of the Lok Sabha
b) Supreme Court
c) HD Shourie (ANSWER - HD Shourie wrote the letter and sought PM's intervention)
d) Ministers

18. A Union minister has not got the power of
a) Allotting petrol pumps (Ministers *did* have this, as shown by Satish Sharma's fine)
b) Allotting shops in the market (ANSWER - This is the only item *not* mentioned in the list of discretionary quotas)
c) Allotting platform stalls (Mentioned under Railways)
d) Allotting berth on trains (Mentioned under Railways)

19. What did the Supreme Court suggest?
a) Not to use discretionary power
b) Not to allot petrol pump
c) Fair use of quota (ANSWER - It advised the 'judicious use of discretionary powers')
d) Abolition of quota

20. "Prejudicial to public interest and a breach of trust" in this quote prejudicial means
a) An opinion formed in the mind beforehand
b) Previous suggestion
c) Prehistoric knowledge
d) Being harmful (ANSWER - In this context, 'prejudicial to public interest' means detrimental or harmful)

21. Choose the word which is nearly the same in meaning as the following words as used in the passage. 'Discretionary'
a) Separate
c) Not continuous
b) Doubt
d) Unrestricted (ANSWER - Discretionary power is a power that can be exercised freely/without constraint by a minister)

22. Choose the word which is nearly the same in meaning as the following words as used in the passage. 'Privilege'
a) Monopoly
c) Clandestine
b) Immunity (ANSWER - A privilege is a special right or advantage, similar to an immunity from standard rules)
d) None of these

23. Choose the word which is nearly the same in meaning as the following words as used in the passage. 'Largesse'
a) Bulky
b) Abundant
c) Gift (ANSWER - Largesse refers to money or gifts given generously)
d) Ostentatiously

24. Choose the word which is nearly the opposite in meaning to the following words according to the passage. 'Anathema'
a) Curse
c) Excommunication
b) Blessing (ANSWER - Anathema means a curse or something intensely disliked; the opposite is a blessing)
d) Probe

25. Choose the word which is nearly the opposite in meaning to the following words according to the passage. 'Attention'
a) Neglect (ANSWER)
b) Default
c) Forget
d) Omit