PART-A-GENERAL ENGLISH
Each question carries 2 marks:
Marks 100

Directions: In the following questions, substitute each sentence with a single word from among the given alternatives.

1. A place where nuns live and work
a) Hostel
b) Convent
c) Dormitory
d) Quarter
Answer: b) Convent

2. A person who studies stars, planets and other heavenly bodies
a) Astrologer
b) Raconteur
c) Flounder
d) Astronomer
Answer: d) Astronomer

3. Open refusal to obey orders
a) Obedience
b) Adherance
c) Defiance
d) Compliance
Answer: c) Defiance

4. To throw an event into confusion and disorder
a) Disrupt
b) Detonate
c) Erupt
d) Explode
Answer: a) Disrupt

5. The Life history of a man written by himself is called
a) Bibliography
b) Autobiography
c) Biography
d) Calligraphy
Answer: b) Autobiography

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is opposite in meaning with the given word from among the given alternatives.

6. Intense
a) Struggle
b) Allow
c) Furious
d) Calm
Answer: d) Calm

7. Zenith
a) Height
b) Apex
c) Bottom
d) Top
Answer: c) Bottom

8. Timid
a) Tired
b) Brave
c) Gentle
d) Snicker
Answer: b) Brave

9. Sinister
a) Good
b) Long
c) Evil
d) Short
Answer: a) Good

10. Provoke
a) Insult
b) Encourage
c) Anger
d) Soothe
Answer: d) Soothe

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is most similar in meaning with the given word from among the given alternatives.

11. Uncouth
a) Ill-mannered
b) Unfriendly
c) Polite
d) Boring
Answer: a) Ill-mannered

12. Stumbling Block
a) Argument
b) Frustration
c) Hurdle
d) Advantage
Answer: c) Hurdle

13. Busy
a) Active
b) Diligent
c) Pre-occupied
d) Occupied
Answer: c) Pre-occupied

14. Feeble
a) Rude
b) Stupid
c) Weak
d) Invalid
Answer: c) Weak

15. Masterly
a) Cruel
b) Brilliant
c) Influential
d) Crafty
Answer: b) Brilliant

Directions: In the following questions, some sentences have errors and some do not. The underlined words are the key words where you can identify whether the sentence is erroneous or not. From the given set of choices, choose the correct alternative for the identified errors. Where there is no error, choose the specified option (d).

16. Pulses are a rich source in protein (Error: in)
a) On
b) From
c) Of
d) No errors
Answer: c) Of (Correct sentence: Pulses are a rich source of protein)

17. I go to school every day through the bus (Error: through)
a) In
b) By
c) With
d) No errors
Answer: b) By (Correct sentence: I go to school every day by bus)

18. It is raining cats or dogs (Error: or)
a) And
b) With
c) Along with
d) No errors
Answer: a) And (Correct sentence: It is raining cats and dogs)

19. Tom is the tallest kid in his class (No Error)
a) Tall
b) Taller
c) More tall
d) No errors
Answer: d) No errors

20. People are wanting to see the home team win the game (Error: are wanting)
a) Want
b) Feel
c) Thought
d) No errors
Answer: a) Want (Correct sentence: People want to see the home team win the game)

Directions: In the following questions, the sentences have blank spaces followed by four alternative answers. Choose the correct alternative from the given choices.

21. In the last few months, the competition has become _____
a) Much tougher
b) More tougher
c) Much more tougher
d) More tough
Answer: a) Much tougher

22. How _____ renew a passport?"
a) Often do you have to
b) Do often you to have
c) You often do have to
d) You do have to often
Answer: a) Often do you have to

23. The stairs are wet and slippery. Walk _____.
a) Careful
b) Care
c) Carefully
d) Caringly
Answer: c) Carefully

24. The house _____ I was born belongs to my grandparents.
a) In
b) Which
c) Where
d) When
Answer: c) Where

25. 'There wasn't enough paper in the printer, _____?"
a) Are there
b) Was there
c) Is there
d) Were there
Answer: b) Was there

Directions: In the following questions, a sentence is given in Direct / Indirect speech. Out of the four alternatives suggested, choose the one which best expresses the same sentence in Direct / Indirect speech.

26. My cousin said, "My room-mate had snored throughout the night."
a) My cousin said that her room-mate snored throughout the night.
b) My cousin told me that her room-mate snored throughout the night.
c) My cousin complained to me that her room-mate is snoring throughout the night.
d) My cousin felt that her room-mate may be snoring throughout the night.
Answer: a) My cousin said that her room-mate snored throughout the night.

27. I told him that he was not working hard.
a) I said to him, "He is not working hard."
b) I told to him, "You are not working hard."
c) I said, "You are not working hard."
d) I said to him, "You are not working hard."
Answer: d) I said to him, "You are not working hard."

28. "Are you alone, my son?" asked a soft voice close behind me.
a) A soft voice asked that what I was doing there alone.
b) A soft voice behind me asked if I was alone.
c) A soft voice from my back asked if I was alone.
d) A soft voice said to me are you alone son.
Answer: b) A soft voice behind me asked if I was alone.

29. "What about going for a swim," he said, "It's quite fine now."
a) He asked me what about going for a swim as it was quite fine then.
b) He proposed going for swim as it was quite fine.
c) He suggested going for a swim as it was quite fine.
d) He advised me to go for a swim as it was quite fine.
Answer: c) He suggested going for a swim as it was quite fine.

30. His father ordered him to go to his room and study.
a) His father shouted, "Go right now to your study room"
b) His father said to him, "Go and study in your room."
c) His father said, "Go to your room and study."
d) His father said firmly, "Go and study in your room."
Answer: c) His father said, "Go to your room and study."

Directions: In the given questions below, there are jumbled up sentence parts. Rearrange these parts, which are labelled A, B, C, D and E to produce the correct sentence. Choose the correct sequence from the given set of alternatives.

31. (A) entered the shop/(B) of a theatrical company/(C) the invisible man/(D) to get some clothes
a) ABCD
b) CABD
c) BACD
d) CADB
Answer: d) CADB (Correct sentence: The invisible man entered the shop to get some clothes)

32. (A) to encourage the development of/(B) cottage industries in the village/(C) an exhibition was organized/(D) by the district authorities
a) ABCD
b) BADC
c) CDAB
d) ACDB
Answer: c) CDAB (Correct sentence: An exhibition was organized by the district authorities to encourage the development of cottage industries in the village)

33. (A) I sow a seed/(B) I saw the sapling/(C) I saw a sprout/(D) I saw a plant
a) ACBD
b) DCBA
c) ABCD
d) CBAD
Answer: a) ACBD (Correct sentence: I sow a seed, I saw a sprout, I saw the sapling, I saw a plant)

34. (A) but he/(B) was, in/(C) foolish person/(D) fact, a
a) CABD
b) ABCD
c) ACBD
d) ABDC
Answer: d) ABDC (Correct sentence: but he was, in fact, a foolish person)

35. (A) i happily ran/(B) in the world/(C) without a care/(D) after the aeroplane
a) CDBA
b) ADCB
c) ABCD
d) DABC
Answer: b) ADCB (Correct sentence: i happily ran after the aeroplane without a care in the world)

Directions: In the following cloze passage, there are blank spaces which are numbered. Against each number, choose the most appropriate choice in meaning from the set of given alternatives.

Passage:
More animals, including the great cats, do not 36 man and they do their best to avoid him. My brain turns round and round like a whirlwind at this odd behaviour. The explanation that the animals 37 that man is a killer is hardly believable. To me, men are comparatively 38 and defenseless. Animals are more agile and alert than man. Nevertheless, it is a fact that animals 39 avoid man. My view is shared 40 other hunters that man has developed a defensive armour.

36. a) Prefer
b) Admire
c) Hate
d) Like
Answer: b) Admire

37. a) Know
b) Believe
c) Feel
d) See
Answer: b) Believe

38. a) Strong
b) Weak
c) Powerful
d) Fragile
Answer: b) Weak

39. a) Seldom
b) Never
c) Occasionally
d) Normally
Answer: d) Normally

40. a) With
b) Along
c) By
d) Among
Answer: c) By

Directions: Read the following passage and answer the questions by marking the answer choice from the alternatives given.

Passage:
When you grow up in a place where it rains for five months a year, wise elders help you to get acquainted with the rain early. They teach you that it is ignorance to think that it is same rain falling every day. There is rain that is gentle, and there is also rain that falls too hard and damages the crops. Hence, pray for the sweet rain that helps the crops to grow. The monsoon in the Naga Hills goes by the native name, Khuthotei (which means the rice-growing season). It lasts from May to early or mid-October. The local residents firmly believe that Durga Puja in October announces the end to rain. After that, one might expect a couple of short winter showers, and the spring showers in March and April. Finally, comes the "big rain in May: proper rainstorms accompanied by heart-stopping lightning and ear-splitting thunder. I have stood out in storms looking at lightning arc across the dark skies, a light-and-sound show that can go on for hours. This is the season when people use the word 'sezuo and 'suzu' to refer to the week-long rains, when clothes don't dry and smell of mould, when fungus forms on the floor and when you can't see the moon or the stars. The rains are also called after flowering plants and people believe that the blossoming of those plants draws out rain. Once the monsoon sets in, field work is carried out in earnest and the work of uprooting and transplanting paddy in flooded fields is done. The months of hard labour are June, July and August. In August, as the 'phrogo' plant begins to bloom, a rain will fall. This August rain, also called 'phrogo', is a sign that the time for cultivation is over. If any new grain seeds are sown, they may not sprout; even if they do sprout, they are not likely to bear grain. The rain acts as a kind of farmer's almanac. The urban population of school-goers and office-goers naturally dislikes the monsoon and its accompanying problems of landslides, muddy, streets and periodic infections. For non-farmers, the month of September can be depressing, when the rainfall is incessant and the awareness persists that the monsoons will last out till October. One needs to have the heart of a farmer to remain grateful for the watery days, and be able to observe from what seems to the inexperienced as a continuous downpour-many kinds of rain. Some of the commonly known rain-weeks are named after the plants that alternately bloom in August and September. The native belief is that the flowers draw out the rain. Each rain period has a job to fulfill: October rain helps garlic bulbs to form, while 'kumunyo' rain helps the rice bear grain. Without it, the ears of rice cannot form properly. End of October is the most beautiful time in the Naga Hills, as the fields turn gold and wild sunflowers bloom over the slopes, all heralding the harvest. Prayers go up for protecting the fields from storms, and the rains to retreat because the grains need to stand in the sun and ripen. The cycle nears completion a few weeks before the harvest, and the rain does retreat so thoroughly from the reaped furrows that the earth quickly turns hard. The months of rain becomes a distant memory until it starts all over again.

41. The rains are called after flowering plants because:
a) Heavy rains kill plants
b) Flowers grow in the rainy season
c) It is believed that the plants bring the rain
d) Flowers grow all the year-round
Answer: c) It is believed that the plants bring the rain

42. People who live in cities don't like rain because:
a) It brings mud and sickness with it
b) They are not bothered about the farmers
c) They don't like the plants that grow during the rain
d) Going shopping becomes difficult
Answer: a) It brings mud and sickness with it

43. People pray asking the rain to retreat because:
a) The fungus and mold need to dry
b) Children don't get a chance to play
c) The crops need the sun and heat to ripen
d) They like to pray
Answer: c) The crops need the sun and heat to ripen

44. What does Durga Puja mean to the farmers of the Naga hills ?
a) It is a holy festival for them
b) It announces the end of rain
c) They expect, thereafter, water showers
d) They look for light and sound show during the festival
Answer: b) It announces the end of rain

45. When can one see sunflowers blowing all over the Naga Hills ?
a) From May to October
b) In September-October
c) During the retreat of rain
d) End of October
Answer: d) End of October

Directions: From the given idioms, choose the best alternative which expresses the closest meaning of the idiom.

46. Bed of Roses
a) Very soft bad
b) Belong to something
c) Dull life
d) Full of Joys
Answer: d) Full of Joys

47. Spill the beans
a) To chop vegetables
b) To throw things
c) To disclose a secret
d) To keep a secret
Answer: c) To disclose a secret

48. Cry for the Moon
a) None of the below
b) To wish for something accessible
c) To try to have something by bad means
d) To wish for something impossible
Answer: d) To wish for something impossible

49. Bring to light
a) Highlight
b) Disclose
c) Prove
d) Probe
Answer: b) Disclose

50. Spick and Span
a) Spotlessly clean
b) Watch the weather
c) To be wise
d) Deceive somebody
Answer: a) Spotlessly clean