PART-A: GENERAL ENGLISH & GENERAL KNOWLEDGE (Marks: 150)
GENERAL ENGLISH (Marks: 80)
Each question carries 2 marks

Directions: Read the following passage and answer the questions by selecting the answer choice from the alternatives given. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

PASSAGE 1
Although not the longest river in America, the Rio Grande is one of the most important. But, unlike other significant rivers, it is not used for shipping. In fact, oceangoing ships cannot navigate the waters. What makes the Rio Grande so important is its location. Since 1846, it has been the official border of Texas and Mexico. The Rio Grande is either the fourth or fifth longest river system in North America. It all depends on how it is measured. Because the river twists so much, it occasionally changes course. And these course shifts can cause it to be longer or shorter. The river starts in Colorado and extends downward to the Gulf of Mexico. Downward is the best way of describing it too. Not only does the river extend south, but it also starts in the mountains and gets lower and lower in elevation as it extends to the Gulf. Its name is Spanish for 'the Big River', but the Rio Grande is actually known as Rio Bravo in Mexico. 'Bravo' translates as 'furious', so the name makes sense. Because of its twists and turns, it certainly does seem to be angrier than most rivers! The Rio Grande today is mostly used as a source of drinking water. Sadly, much of the water has been drained from the river. Parts of the river are almost dry! This is because people use more water from the river than the river can get back from rain and other sources. Experts are working to correct this, though, with hopes of restoring the river to its past strength. Today, the river is important as a source of water for Texans and Mexicans. More important, it is a symbol of cooperation between two nations. Though borders like the Rio Grande separate nations, they are also shared spaces. The Rio Grande is therefore a symbol of friendship and peace between two peoples.

1. According to the passage, why is the Rio Grande so important?
(A) It is a source of drinking water for most of the United States.
(B) It is the border of Texas and Mexico.
(C) It is the longest river system in the United States.
(D) It is known by two different names.
Answer: (B)

2. The author writes that 'downward is the best way of describing it too' in order to
(A) prove that the Rio Grande's water levels have gone down recently
(B) argue that the Rio Grande has changed shape over the years
(C) highlight the fact that the Rio Grande flows south and from high elevations
(D) explain why the Rio Grande is known as the Rio Bravo down in Mexico
Answer: (C)

3. The word 'furious' in the passage most nearly means
(A) angry
(B) large
(C) twisted
(D) dry
Answer: (A)

4. According to the passage, the Rio Grande has endpoints in
(A) Texas and the Gulf of Mexico
(B) New Mexico and Colorado
(C) Texas and Mexico
(D) Colorado and the Gulf of Mexico
Answer: (D)

Directions: For the given underlined idioms, choose the best alternative which expresses the closest meaning of the idiom. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

5. It is challenging to reply at the spur of the moment when questioned in an interview.
(A) difficult moment
(B) without delay
(C) great moment
(D) very slow
Answer: (B)

6. Rahul was at his wit's end to find that his sister had failed.
(A) perplexed
(B) clear up
(C) explain
(D) enlighten
Answer: (A)

7. He has recovered from illness and now he is as fit as a fiddle.
(A) very weak
(B) recovering from illness
(C) looks fit but not fit actually
(D) strong and healthy
Answer: (D)

8. All three brothers are at loggerheads because of land dispute.
(A) in difficulty
(B) to be in conflict
(C) very happy together
(D) None of the above
Answer: (B)

9. I am at a loss to know what to do.
(A) at a business loss
(B) at a relation loss
(C) to be unable to decide
(D) None of the above
Answer: (C)

10. It is not a good idea to cut corners when building a bridge.
(A) force a solution that isn't a natural fit
(B) do something poorly in order to save time or money
(C) drive fast and dangerously
(D) take shortcuts in order to get to your destination quickly
Answer: (B)

11. If you want to ask me, just ask; don't beat around the bush.
(A) avoid saying what you want to say, usually because it is uncomfortable
(B) stop working on something
(C) don't be critical
(D) being slow
Answer: (A)

12. As soon as I reach home, I will hit the sack.
(A) dust the carpet
(B) clean with a piece of cloth
(C) go to sleep
(D) discipline the child
Answer: (C)

Directions: In the following questions, substitute each group of words with a single word from among the given alternatives. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

13. Someone having many skills
(A) projectile
(B) cyclostyle
(C) anglophile
(D) versatile
Answer: (D)

14. A person who studies stars, planets and other heavenly bodies
(A) astrologer
(B) raconteur
(C) flounder
(D) astronomer
Answer: (D)

15. A person who is killed because of their religious or other beliefs
(A) soldier
(B) revolutionary
(C) martyr
(D) patriot
Answer: (C)

16. Government chosen by the people
(A) autocracy
(B) democracy
(C) socialism
(D) anarchy
Answer: (B)

17. A person who studies and treats cancer
(A) ophthalmologist
(B) oncologist
(C) optometrist
(D) pathologist
Answer: (B)

18. A person who studies the history of life on the earth through fossil records
(A) historian
(B) zoologist
(C) palaeontologist
(D) botanist
Answer: (C)

19. A person who devices new machines to make work easier
(A) discoverer
(B) mechanic
(C) scientist
(D) inventor
Answer: (D)

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is opposite in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

20. Benevolent
(A) benign
(B) caring
(C) humane
(D) unkind
Answer: (D)

21. Barren
(A) desert
(B) depleted
(C) fertile
(D) arid
Answer: (C)

22. Permit
(A) give
(B) forbid
(C) allow
(D) preserve
Answer: (B)

23. Scarce
(A) masked face
(B) found in plenty
(C) rare
(D) unkind
Answer: (B)

24. Wander
(A) not to think
(B) to be at rest, not moving
(C) to move in circles
(D) to daydream
Answer: (B)

25. Solitude
(A) loneliness
(B) unfriendly
(C) in a crowd
(D) happiness
Answer: (C)

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is most similar in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

26. Conceal
(A) harvest
(B) to explore
(C) clear
(D) hide
Answer: (D)

27. Emancipate
(A) liberate
(B) to put in cage
(C) proud
(D) collect
Answer: (A)

28. Peril
(A) ordinary
(B) safety
(C) caution
(D) danger
Answer: (D)

29. Persist
(A) argue
(B) persevere, carry on
(C) adamant
(D) hardworking
Answer: (B)

30. Contempt
(A) to try to attempt
(B) to attempt but fail
(C) lack of respect with intense dislike
(D) to show respect
Answer: (C)

Directions: In the questions given below, there are jumbled up sentence parts. Rearrange these parts, which are labelled (A), (B), (C), (D) and (E) to produce the correct sentence. Choose the correct sequence from the given set of alternatives. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

31. the (A) / children (B) / were (C) / the animals (D) / fascinated by (E)
(A) BACED
(B) CBAED
(C) EDCBA
(D) DCEBA
Correct Sentence: The children were fascinated by the animals.
Answer: (A)

32. plays an (A) / upbringing (B) / important (C) / personal progress (D) / role in (E)
(A) EBACD
(B) BDACE
(C) DACEB
(D) BACED
Correct Sentence: Upbringing plays an important role in personal progress.
Answer: (B)

33. an (A) / him popular (B) / made (C) / unexpected (D) / victory (E)
(A) AECBD
(B) DCBAE
(C) CBADE
(D) ADECB
Correct Sentence: An unexpected victory made him popular.
Answer: (D)

Directions: In the following questions, some sentences have errors and some do not. The underlined words are the key words where you can identify whether the sentence is erroneous or not. From the given set of choices, choose the correct alternative for the identified errors. Where there is no error, choose the specified option (D). Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

34. The white chairs in the sitting room is made of teak.
(A) have
(B) had
(C) are
(D) No error
Answer: (C)

35. He was asking my opinion for the film.
(A) opinion on
(B) opinion of
(C) opinion with
(D) No error
Answer: (A)

36. He has the guts to rise from the occasion.
(A) rise for
(B) rise to
(C) rise at
(D) No error
Answer: (B)

Directions: Read the following passage and answer the questions by selecting the answer choice from the alternatives given. Mark the correct answer in your answer sheet.

PASSAGE 2
The film industry is facing the challenge of the television screen which, because of its ready availability and nearness to entertainment seekers, is becoming very popular, particularly in the West where television programmes are as indispensable to people as newspaper material. Sustained entertainment for multitudes lasting two or three hours is possible only in big cinema halls. Scenic beauty, background effects and colour techniques which have made the products of cinema industry so attractive and delightful may not be reproduced by television programme organizers, and therefore, this important invention in the field of wireless communication, in spite of having become a big rival of the cinema, may not succeed in replacing it. The motion picture has also stepped into the international sphere as an agent of goodwill and cooperation among nations. Cultural contacts which tend to reduce tension in the world and bring harmony in international relations have been established through the medium of films. The more people understand and appreciate the past history, present aims, customs, habits and beliefs of men and women in foreign lands, the more will they realize that their interests can be best served by establishing friendly relations with them and by removing those irritants which breed distrust, lack of cooperation and the desire to punish those whose views and attitudes are such as they do not like. As cultural agents, movies can cement ties of love and brotherhood among nations and teach them to confer on each other the benefits of all the rich and glorious achievements of the present enlightened age. In recent years, artists of the film world have been visiting foreign lands with a view to presenting before audience in those countries the best products of their cultural heritage. Film festivals which many European and Asian countries have been organizing from time-to-time have also proved to be of immense value in reducing social barriers, colour prejudices and other causes of friction between nations.

According to the passage:
37. The film industry is facing the challenge of
(A) the theatre
(B) financial crunch
(C) waning people's interest
(D) the television screen
Answer: (D)

38. The TV has become popular because of
(A) its entertaining programmes
(B) its educative value
(C) its ready availability
(D) its wide appeal
Answer: (C)

39. Three things that make cinema so attractive are
(A) scenic beauty, background effects and beautiful faces
(B) scenic beauty, good sets and colour techniques
(C) scenic beauty, gaudy dresses and colourful techniques
(D) scenic beauty, background effects and colour techniques
Answer: (D)

40. Films have become agents of
(A) pioneering
(B) providing
(C) conferring
(D) goodwill and cooperation
Answer: (D)