PART-A: GENERAL ENGLISH
(Marks: 100)
Each question carries 2 marks

Directions (Q. Nos. 1-5): Read the following passage and answer the questions by selecting the answer choices from the alternatives given.

Passage:
If a person suddenly encounters any terrible danger, the change of nature one undergoes is equally great. Sometimes fear numbs our senses. Like animals, one stands still, powerless to move a step in fright or to lift a hand in defense of our lives, and sometimes one is seized with panic, and again, act more like the inferior animals than rational beings. On the other hand, frequently in cases of sudden extreme peril, which cannot be escaped by flight, and must be instantly faced, even the most timid men at once as if by miracle, become possessed of the necessary courage, sharp quick apprehension and swift decision. This is a miracle very common in nature. Man and the inferior animals alike, when confronted with almost certain death 'gather resolution from despair' but there can really be no trace of so debilitating a feeling in the person fighting, or prepared to fight for dear life. At such times the mind is clearer than it has ever been; the nerves are steel, there is nothing felt but a wonderful strength and daring. Looking back at certain perilous moments in my own life, I remember them with a kind of joy, not that there was any joyful excitement then, but because they broadened my horizon, lifted me for a time above myself.

1. The title that best suits the passage would be
(A) The Will to Fight
(B) The Miracle of Confronting Danger
(C) The Change of Nature
(D) Courage and Panic
Answer: (B) The Miracle of Confronting Danger

2. A man may react to sudden danger in three different ways. What are they?
(A) He may flee in panic, or fight back or stand still
(B) He may be paralyzed with fear, seized with panic or act like an inferior animal
(C) He may be paralyzed with fear, or seized with panic, or as if by miracle, become possessed of the necessary courage, and face the danger
(D) He may be paralyzed with fear, run away or fight
Answer: (C) He may be paralyzed with fear, or seized with panic, or as if by miracle, become possessed of the necessary courage, and face the danger

3. What is the meaning of the word debilitating?
(A) Enfeeble
(B) Strengthen
(C) Debase
(D) Thriving
Answer: (A) Enfeeble

4. Explain the phrase 'gather resolution from danger'. (Note: The phrase in the text is 'gather resolution from despair')
(A) Find peace in times of difficulty
(B) To remain calm and not to lose hope
(C) To be enthusiastic and brave the odds
(D) A state of utter hopelessness makes one determined to face the difficulty
Answer: (D) A state of utter hopelessness makes one determined to face the difficulty

5. The author feels happy in the recollection of dangers faced and overcome because
(A) they brought him a new experience
(B) they added a new perspective and lifted him above himself for a time
(C) these experiences boosted his confidence
(D) he felt elated as he was alive
Answer: (B) they added a new perspective and lifted him above himself for a time

Directions (Q. Nos. 6-10): From the given idioms, choose the best alternatives which express the closest meaning of the idioms.

6. Beat a dead horse
(A) Exploit someone to the point of killing him/her
(B) To continue playing a game knowing very well that you are going to lose
(C) Show extreme level of cruelty especially to animals
(D) To uselessly dwell on a subject far beyond its point of resolution
Answer: (D) To uselessly dwell on a subject far beyond its point of resolution

7. Out of print
(A) A book no longer available from the publisher
(B) All publishers refuse to publish your book
(C) Not able to print due to being short on paper
(D) Intentionally not mention some items in the article or book
Answer: (A) A book no longer available from the publisher

8. Keep under one's hat
(A) To take care of somebody else's valuables given to you for safe keeping
(B) To steal and hide something
(C) To keep something a secret
(D) To keep all your wealth in your home
Answer: (C) To keep something a secret

9. The ball is in your court
(A) To request someone to return your belonging
(B) To tell someone politely about his/her mistake
(C) To put the blame on the other person
(D) It is up to you to make the next decision or step
Answer: (D) It is up to you to make the next decision or step

10. To make one's flesh creep
(A) To flatter someone
(B) To frighten someone
(C) To confuse someone
(D) To abuse someone
Answer: (B) To frighten someone

Directions (Q. Nos. 11-15): In the following questions, substitute each group of words with a single word from among the given alternatives.

11. A person pretending to be somebody he is not
(A) Magician
(B) Rogue
(C) Imposter
(D) Liar
Answer: (C) Imposter

12. One who possesses many talents
(A) Versatile
(B) Nubile
(C) Exceptional
(D) Gifted
Answer: (A) Versatile

13. Words inscribed on tomb
(A) Epitome
(B) Epistle
(C) Epilogue
(D) Epitaph
Answer: (D) Epitaph

14. Something that can be heard
(A) Auditory
(B) Audio-visual
(C) Audible
(D) Audition
Answer: (C) Audible

15. Animal that feeds on plants
(A) Carnivorous
(B) Herbivorous
(C) Insectivorous
(D) Graminivorous
Answer: (B) Herbivorous

Directions (Q. Nos. 16-20): In the following questions, choose a word that is opposite in meaning with the given word from among the given alternatives (Antonyms).

16. Eminent
(A) Noted
(B) Acclaimed
(C) Unknown
(D) Leading
Answer: (C) Unknown

17. Impossible
(A) Unfeasible
(B) Unworkable
(C) Attainable
(D) Non-viable
Answer: (C) Attainable

18. Modest
(A) Unhappy
(B) Solemn
(C) Glum
(D) Conceited
Answer: (D) Conceited

19. Arrogance
(A) Content
(B) Sad
(C) Sincere
(D) Humility
Answer: (D) Humility

20. Abundance
(A) Happy
(B) Prosperity
(C) Poverty
(D) Generous
Answer: (C) Poverty

Directions (Q. Nos. 21-25): In the following questions, choose a word or words that is most similar in meaning with the given word from among the given alternatives (Synonyms).

21. Descriptive
(A) Obscurity
(B) Creativity
(C) Explanatory
(D) Insanity
Answer: (C) Explanatory

22. Bafflement
(A) Confusion
(B) Pleasure
(C) Clarity
(D) Cleanliness
Answer: (A) Confusion

23. Retaliate
(A) Facilitate
(B) Rotate
(C) Clap
(D) React
Answer: (D) React

24. Overlook
(A) Introduce
(B) Take on
(C) Skip
(D) Stay
Answer: (C) Skip

25. Retain
(A) Share
(B) Keep
(C) Pass on
(D) Give
Answer: (B) Keep

Directions (Q. Nos. 26-30): In the following questions, a sentence is given in Direct/Indirect speech. Out of the four alternatives suggested, choose the one which best expresses the same sentence in Indirect/Direct speech.

26. Bok said to Meda, "Sara will leave for her village tomorrow."
(A) Bok told Meda that Sara will leave for her village tomorrow.
(B) Bok told Meda that Sara left for her village the next day.
(C) Bok told Meda that Sara would be leaving for her village tomorrow.
(D) Bok told Meda that Sara would leave for her village the next day.
Answer: (D) Bok told Meda that Sara would leave for her village the next day.

27. He said to her, "What a cold day!"
(A) He told her that it was a cold day.
(B) He exclaimed that it was a cold day.
(C) He exclaimed sorrowfully that it was a cold day.
(D) He exclaimed to her that it was a very cold day.
Answer: (D) He exclaimed to her that it was a very cold day.

28. The man exclaimed that his hat was stolen. (Indirect to Direct)
(A) "My hat was stolen!" the man said.
(B) "Somebody steal my hat!" exclaimed the man.
(C) The man exclaimed, "My hat was stolen!"
(D) The man cried, "My hat was stolen".
Answer: (C) The man exclaimed, "My hat was stolen!"

29. He told her, "I want to meet your mother." (Direct to Indirect)
(A) He told her that I want to meet your mother.
(B) He told her that he wanted to meet her mother.
(C) He told her that he wanted to meet your mother.
(D) He told her that she wanted to meet her mother.
Answer: (B) He told her that he wanted to meet her mother.

30. Mrs. Chen asked the boy if he could tell her where the nearest police station is. (Indirect to Direct)
(A) "Where is the nearest police station?" Mrs. Chen asked the boy.
(B) Mrs. Chen asked the boy, "Can you tell me where the nearest police station is?"
(C) Mrs. Chen asked the boy, "Where is the nearest police station?"
(D) Mrs. Chen said to the boy, "Where is the nearest police station?"
Answer: (B) Mrs. Chen asked the boy, "Can you tell me where the nearest police station is?"

Directions (Q. Nos. 31-35): In the following questions, some sentences have errors and some do not. The underlined words are the key words where you can identify whether the sentence is erroneous or not. From the given set of choices, choose the correct alternative for the identified errors. Where there is no error, choose the specified option (D).

31. The film Slumdog Millionaire were a great movie. (Error: Verb agreement)
(A) was
(B) had
(C) are
(D) No error
Answer: (A) was

32. The horse jumped smoothly across the fence. (Error: Preposition)
(A) above
(B) under
(C) on
(D) No error
Answer: (D) No error

33. The plane was late in an hour. (Error: Preposition)
(A) for
(B) by
(C) over
(D) No error
Answer: (B) by

34. The notorious robbers were finally captured with the police. (Error: Preposition)
(A) over
(B) under
(C) by
(D) No error
Answer: (C) by

35. The boy trembled on fear of the deadly snake. (Error: Preposition)
(A) by
(B) from
(C) with
(D) No error
Answer: (C) with

Directions (Q. Nos. 46-50): In the following questions, the sentences have blank spaces followed by four alternative answers. Choose the correct alternative from the given choices.

46. She _______ be hungry after all that running.
(A) need
(B) had
(C) must
(D) do
Answer: (C) must

47. Rice and curry _______ a tasty dinner.
(A) are
(B) makes
(C) do make
(D) make
Answer: (B) makes

48. We _______ be considerate towards our neighbours.
(A) ought to
(B) dare
(C) may
(D) do
Answer: (A) ought to

49. My parents have lived in Shillong _______ many years.
(A) from
(B) since
(C) for
(D) to
Answer: (C) for

50. The passage suggests that a child's first visit to the seaside is a marvellous _______.
(A) moment
(B) vacation
(C) adventure
(D) occasion
Answer: (C) adventure