PART-A: GENERAL ENGLISH (Marks: 100)
Each question carries 2 marks

Directions: Read the following passage and complete the sentences by selecting the answer choice from the alternatives given.
(The full passage is included below)

Passage:
Former Delhi Metro Chief, E. Sreedharan, popularly called Metro Man for his contribution towards setting up the Delhi Metro, has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him not to agree to the Delhi Government's proposal to make travel free for women commuters. The Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi had recently announced its decision to give free travel facility to women passengers on buses and Metro trains. As the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation is an equal partnership between the Delhi Government and the Centre, Mr. Sreedharan, a principal advisor to DMRC, said the Prime Minister's 'personal intervention' was required. "One shareholder cannot take a unilateral decision to give concession to one section of the community and push Delhi Metro into inefficiency and bankruptcy," he wrote in his letter of June 10. After being an instrumental part of the Delhi Metro since its inception, Mr. Sreedharan stepped down as Managing Director in 2011. He wrote that he had decided not to intervene in the working of the Delhi Metro after stepping down, but the Delhi Government's decision had forced him to come forward. "Sir, when the first section of the Delhi Metro was to be opened, I had taken a firm and conscious decision that no one would be given any travel concession on Delhi Metro. This stand was taken to maximize revenues so that Metro fares could be kept low so as to be affordable to ordinary citizens...." At the same time, Metro would make sufficient operational surpluses to pay back loans taken from JICA, Mr. Sreedharan wrote. He recalled that the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee bought a ticket for himself when he went to inaugurate the first section of the Metro on December 23, 2002. "Now, if ladies are to be given free travel concession in Delhi Metro, it would set an alarming precedence for all other Metros in the country. The argument of Delhi Government that the revenue losses would be reimbursed to DMRC is a poor solace. The amount involved is about 1,000 crores per annum today. This will go on increasing as the Metro network expands and with further fare hikes on the Metro," he wrote. He said other sections of commuters, including the 'more deserving' like students, the disabled and senior citizens, as well as other Metros in the country would raise similar demands if Delhi's proposal for free travel for women becomes a reality.

1. What has Mr. Sreedharan written to the Prime Minister regarding the decision taken by the Delhi Government allowing free travel for women in Metro trains?
(A) He has supported the decision and has asked the Prime Minister to replicate the same in all the other Metro networks in the country
(B) He has supported the move but he is not satisfied with the extent of relaxation being given by the Delhi Government
(C) He has requested the Prime Minister to make sure that this decision is disapproved by the PM
(D) He has requested the Prime Minister to reimburse the Delhi Metro for the losses it would incur due to the latest decision taken by it
Answer: (C)

2. When did Mr. Sreedharan quit as the Managing Director of Delhi Metro?
(A) 2010
(B) 2013
(C) 2017
(D) 2011
Answer: (D)

3. What will the Delhi Government do in order to take care of the losses incurred by Delhi Metro due to free travel permission for women?
(A) The government will make sure that other commuters pay more amount so that there is no revenue shortfall
(B) The government will make sure that nobody can travel without ticket so that fines can reimburse the loss
(C) The government will reimburse the loss incurred by the Delhi Metro due to the decision of the government
(D) The government has not taken any decision regarding the reimbursement of the losses incurred by the Delhi Metro for the decision to allow free travel to women commuters
Answer: (C)

4. Which among the following is correct regarding the ownership pattern of the Delhi Metro as described in the given passage?
(A) It is an equal partnership between the Delhi Government and Uttar Pradesh Government as it covers areas of both
(B) It is an equal partnership between the Central Government and the Delhi Government
(C) It is wholly owned by Indian Railways and no Central Government Ministry is involved in its general administration
(D) It is wholly owned by the Delhi Government and foreign agencies have lent support to the government
Answer: (B)

5. Which among the following is correct regarding the concerns raised by Mr. Sreedharan regarding the decision taken by the Delhi Government?
(A) It will set a precedent for all the other metro networks operating in the country as similar demands will be raised there also
(B) It will be very difficult to make sure that male commuters use the Metro network to go to work from now onwards
(C) It is going to make sure that Delhi Metro is always crowded with women and this will actually increase crimes against them
(D) All of the above
Answer: (A)

Directions: For the given idioms, choose the best alternative which expresses the closest meaning of the idiom.

6. Beat a dead horse
(A) Exploit someone to the point of killing him/her
(B) To continue playing a game knowing very well that you are going to lose
(C) Show extreme level of cruelty especially to animals
(D) To uselessly dwell on a subject far beyond its point of resolution
Answer: (D)

7. Out of print
(A) A book no longer available from the publisher
(B) All publishers refuse to publish your book
(C) Not able to print due to being short on paper
(D) Intentionally not mention some items in the article or book
Answer: (A)

8. Keep under one's hat
(A) Take care of somebody else's valuables given to you for safe keeping
(B) Steal and hide something
(C) To keep something a secret
(D) Keep all your wealth in your home
Answer: (C)

9. The ball is in your court
(A) Request someone to return your belonging
(B) To tell someone politely about his/her mistake
(C) Put the blame on the other person
(D) It is up to you to make the next decision or step
Answer: (D)

10. Make one's flesh creep
(A) To flatter someone
(B) To frighten someone
(C) To confuse someone
(D) To abuse someone
Answer: (B)

Directions: In the following questions, substitute each sentence with a single word from among the given alternatives.

11. A place to bury dead bodies.
(A) Catacomb
(B) Crypt
(C) Cemetery
(D) Sepulchre
Answer: (C)

12. A hundred-year-old man.
(A) Century
(B) Centurion
(C) Centenarian
(D) Cent
Answer: (C)

13. The absence of government.
(A) Unruly
(B) Misrule
(C) Anarchy
(D) Chaos
Answer: (C)

14. A man who remains unmarried.
(A) Bachelor
(B) Artist
(C) Spinster
(D) Uncle
Answer: (A)

15. The yearly return of a date.
(A) Ceremony
(B) Recurrence
(C) Commemoration
(D) Anniversary
Answer: (D)

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is opposite in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives.

16. Military
(A) Civil
(B) Civility
(C) Militant
(D) Coup
Answer: (A)

17. Embrace
(A) Obscure
(B) Contradict
(C) Reject
(D) Disobey
Answer: (C)

18. Sinister
(A) Good
(B) Long
(C) Evil
(D) Short
Answer: (A)

19. Sterile
(A) Short
(B) Common
(C) Fertile
(D) Wild
Answer: (C)

20. Abundance
(A) Lavish
(B) Scarcity
(C) Profusion
(D) Generous
Answer: (B)

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is most similar in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives.

21. Massive
(A) Strong
(B) Little
(C) Gaping
(D) Huge
Answer: (D)

22. Cease
(A) Begin
(B) Stop
(C) Create
(D) Dull
Answer: (B)

23. Germinate
(A) Decay
(B) Breed
(C) Sprout
(D) Produce
Answer: (C)

24. Interfere
(A) Intrude
(B) Stay out of
(C) Facilitate
(D) Delay
Answer: (A)

25. Pacify
(A) Gather
(B) Allot
(C) Calm
(D) Scold
Answer: (C)

Directions: In the following questions, a sentence is given in Direct/Indirect speech. Out of the four alternatives suggested, choose the one which best expresses the same sentence in Direct/Indirect speech.

26. The doctor said, "You take rest."
(A) The doctor advised me to take rest.
(B) The doctor was advised me to take rest.
(C) The doctor advised me to took rest.
(D) The doctor said me to you had taken rest.
Answer: (A)

27. He said to her, "What a sunny day !"
(A) He told her that it was a sunny day.
(B) He exclaimed that it was a sunny day.
(C) He exclaimed sorrowfully that it was a sunny day.
(D) He exclaimed that it was a very sunny day.
Answer: (D)

28. Mr. Lambert exclaimed that his wallet was stolen.
(A) "My wallet was stolen!" Mr. Lambert said.
(B) "Somebody stole my wallet!" exclaimed Mr. Lambert.
(C) Mr. Lambert exclaimed, "My wallet was stolen!"
(D) Mr. Lambert cried, "My wallet was stolen".
Answer: (B)

29. The leader says, "A country cannot be peaceful until good education is provided to each child."
(A) The leader says that a country could not be peaceful until good education is provided to each child.
(B) The leader says that a country cannot been peaceful until good education was provided to each child.
(C) The leader says that a country cannot peaceful until good education will be provided to each child.
(D) The leader says that a country cannot be peaceful until good education is provided to each child.
Answer: (D)

30. The man asked the boy if he could tell him where the nearest bus station is.
(A) Where is the nearest bus station? The man asked the boy.
(B) The man asked the boy, "Could you tell me where the nearest bus station is"?
(C) The man asked the boy, "Where is the nearest bus station?"
(D) The man said to the boy, "Where is the nearest bus station"?
Answer: (B)

Directions: In the following questions, some sentences have errors and some do not. The underlined words are the key words where you can identify whether the sentence is erroneous or not. From the given set of choices, choose the correct alternative for the identified errors. Where there is no error, choose the specified option (D).

31. The little boy does whatever his father was done.
(A) has done
(B) did
(C) does
(D) No errors
Answer: (B)

32. The man to who I sold the house was a cheat.
(A) to whom I sell
(B) to whom I sold
(C) who was sold to
(D) No errors
Answer: (B)

33. The intruder stood quietly for a few moments.
(A) for few moments
(B) for few time
(C) for moments
(D) No errors
Answer: (D)

34. The notorious robbers were finally captured with the police.
(A) over
(B) under
(C) by
(D) No errors
Answer: (C)

35. They continued to work in the field despite of the heavy raining.
(A) even though it rained heavily
(B) in spite of raining
(C) although heavily raining
(D) No errors
Answer: (A)

Directions: In the following questions, there are jumbled up sentence parts which are labelled as A, B, C and D. Rearrange the sequence in order to produce the correct sentence.

36. A. tramp
B. I was
C. as free
D. as a
(A) ABCD
(B) DABC
(C) BCDA
(D) CABD
Answer: (C) (BCDA: I was as free as a tramp)

37. A. the first film
B. he ever
C. that is
D. saw
(A) ACBD
(B) CABD
(C) BACD
(D) DCAB
Answer: (B) (CABD: That is the first film he ever saw)

38. A. by her indulgent parents
B. the child was so spoiled
C. when she did not receive all of their attention
D. that she pouted and became sullen
(A) BADC
(B) CDBA
(C) ADCB
(D) BCDA
Answer: (A) (BADC: The child was so spoiled by her indulgent parents that she pouted and became sullen when she did not receive all of their attention)

39. A. that
B. racialism
C. should be wiped out
D. people want
(A) BCAD
(B) DBCA
(C) DABC
(D) ABDC
Answer: (C) (DABC: People want that racialism should be wiped out)

40. A. checked regularly
B. you should have
C. blood pressure
D. your
(A) DCAB
(B) ADCB
(C) BADC
(D) BDCA
Answer: (D) (BDCA: You should have your blood pressure checked regularly)

Directions: In the following cloze passage, there are blank spaces which are numbered. Against each number, choose the most appropriate choice from the set of given alternatives.

Now-a-days, under the modern system of education, however good it may be, when a young man comes out of the university, there seems to be this 41 in him that the higher the standard of living rises, the less should a man work. Thus, mathematically, higher the standard of living, according to this misconceived notion, the less the 42 ultimately. What should be the highest standard of living then? No work! This leads to an unhealthy ambition among the workers. A typist who types over twenty letters a day asks his 43 how many letters he had typed that day. The latter replies fifteen'. The former thinks, "Tomorrow I should type only fifteen or even less." This tendency is quite 44 and may ultimately lead to 45 even one's family life may be affected adversely due to such tendency.

41. (A) anxiety
(B) realization
(C) misconception
(D) apprehension
Answer: (C)

42. (A) work
(B) time
(C) salary
(D) energy
Answer: (A)

43. (A) colleague
(B) boss
(C) subordinate
(D) client
Answer: (A)

44. (A) unnatural
(B) healthy
(C) unfortunate
(D) discouraging
Answer: (D)

45. (A) retardation
(B) denial
(C) complexity
(D) evil
Answer: (A)

Directions: In the following questions, the sentences have blank spaces followed by four alternative answers. Choose the correct alternative from the given choices.

46. She _________ be hungry after all that running.
(A) need
(B) can
(C) must
(D) may
Answer: (C)

47. Rice and curry _________ a tasty dinner.
(A) are
(B) makes
(C) do make
(D) make
Answer: (B)

48. We _________ be considerate towards our neighbours.
(A) ought to
(B) dare
(C) need
(D) will
Answer: (A)

49. Wood _________ on water.
(A) float
(B) floated
(C) will float
(D) floats
Answer: (D)

50. He has _________ friends. He is an introvert.
(A) few
(B) a few
(C) several
(D) many
Answer: (A)