PART-A-GENERAL ENGLISH
Marks:50
Each question carries 2 marks:

Directions: In the following questions, out of the four alternatives given, choose the word which is opposite in meaning to the underlined word:

1. Sane
a) Refined
b) Brief
c) Inane
d) Unbalanced
Answer: d) Unbalanced (Antonym of Sane is Unbalanced/Mad)

2. Bane
a) Tact
b) Excess
c) Blessing
d) Ruin
Answer: c) Blessing (Antonym of Bane (a cause of great distress or annoyance) is Blessing)

3. Treacherous
a) Deceitful
b) Messy
c) Careful
d) Loyal
Answer: d) Loyal (Antonym of Treacherous (guilty of betrayal or deception) is Loyal)

4. Alert
a) Allege
b) Inattentive
c) Similar
d) Watchful
Answer: b) Inattentive (Antonym of Alert (vigilant, attentive) is Inattentive)

5. Altruistic
a) Uncharitable
b) Academic
c) Rampant
d) Generous
Answer: a) Uncharitable (Antonym of Altruistic (showing a disinterested and selfless concern for the well-being of others) is Uncharitable/Selfish. 'Uncharitable' is the closest fit among the options.)

---
Directions: In the following questions, out of the four alternatives given, select the one that best expresses the meaning of the underlined word (Synonyms):

6. The Smiths lived in a modest home near Canterbury.
a) Stylish
b) Humble
c) Stony
d) Dingy
Answer: b) Humble (Synonym of Modest (unassuming, not excessively large) is Humble)

7. This classroom is better than that awful place we had before with the tiny windows.
a) Shadowy
b) Terrific
c) Medieval
d) Dreadful
Answer: d) Dreadful (Synonym of Awful (very bad or unpleasant) is Dreadful)

8. She was exultant at her brilliant success.
a) Delighted
b) Disinterested
c) Powerless
d) Practical
Answer: a) Delighted (Synonym of Exultant (triumphantly happy) is Delighted)

9. There was a great dispute between the workers and the management.
a) Derision
b) Unhappiness
c) Prospect
d) Conflict
Answer: d) Conflict (Synonym of Dispute (a disagreement, argument) is Conflict)

10. The media is disseminating news of another war.
a) Circulating
b) Overlooking
c) Exposing
d) Restricting
Answer: a) Circulating (Synonym of Disseminating (spreading or dispersing (something, especially information) widely) is Circulating)

---
Directions: In the following questions, out of the four alternatives given, choose the alternative which best expresses the meaning of the given idiom / phrase:

11. All roads lead to Rome
a) Set out on a journey
b) There are many different ways of reaching the same goal
c) A public spectacle marked by barbarism
d) Going down in estimation or favour
Answer: b) There are many different ways of reaching the same goal

12. Better safe than sorry
a) It is wiser to be careful than to be hasty and then do something that one may regret later
b) It is preferable for something to happen or be done later than not at all
c) Narrowly surpass a previous effort or achievement
d) At a late stage in proceedings, too late to be useful
Answer: a) It is wiser to be careful than to be hasty and then do something that one may regret later

13. Where there's smoke, there's fire
a) There is always some reason for a rumour
b) Stimulate someone to work more enthusiastically
c) A powerful sense of ambition and determination
d) Something that is beyond repair
Answer: a) There is always some reason for a rumour

14. Sit on the fence
a) Unreasonable or unacceptable
b) An opportunity to achieve something
c) Delay making a decision
d) Criticise someone aggressively
Answer: c) Delay making a decision

15. Hit the hay
a) Make good use of an opportunity while it lasts
b) To go to one's bed in order to sleep
c) Throw into confusion
d) Leave quickly
Answer: b) To go to one's bed in order to sleep

---
Directions: In the following questions, fill in the blanks with appropriate preposition from the options given below:

16. I put a cloth _______ her head.
a) At
b) Over
c) Along
d) Across
Answer: b) Over (Used to indicate covering or motion above something)

17. He is a member _______ Parliament.
a) At
b) In
c) On
d) Of
Answer: d) Of (Used to indicate belonging or association)

18. He was afraid _______ losing his money.
a) Of
b) To
c) Off
d) With
Answer: a) Of (The standard idiom is "afraid of")

19. We need fewer workers _______ the weekend.
a) On
b) By
c) During
d) In
Answer: c) During (Used to specify a time period within which an action occurs. 'On' the weekend is also common, but 'during' implies the entire duration of the weekend.)

20. I thought I heard someone _______ the door.
a) At
b) On
c) By
d) From
Answer: a) At (Used to specify position near a location/entrance)

---
Directions: In the following questions, out of the four alternatives given, choose the one which is similar in meaning to the underlined word (Synonyms):

21. Infallible
a) Dishonest
b) Twisted
c) Faultless
d) Merciful
Answer: c) Faultless (Synonym of Infallible (incapable of making mistakes or being wrong) is Faultless)

22. Gruesome
a) Poisonous
b) Ghastly
c) Docile
d) Cruel
Answer: b) Ghastly (Synonym of Gruesome (causing revulsion or horror) is Ghastly)

23. Vague
a) Unclear
b) Brave
c) Tasteless
d) Haughty
Answer: a) Unclear (Synonym of Vague (of uncertain, indefinite, or unclear character or meaning) is Unclear)

24. Hostile
a) Ailing
b) Miserable
c) Annoying
d) Unfriendly
Answer: d) Unfriendly (Synonym of Hostile (showing or feeling opposition or dislike; unfriendly) is Unfriendly)

25. Cryptic
a) Savage
b) Mysterious
c) Critical
d) Crucial
Answer: b) Mysterious (Synonym of Cryptic (having a meaning that is mysterious or obscure) is Mysterious)