PART-A-GENERAL ENGLISH
Marks:50
Each question carries 2 marks:

Directions: For the given underlined idioms, choose the best alternative which expresses the closest meaning of the idiom.

1. My brother went on a wild goose chase
a) went hunting for geese
b) went chasing birds
c) doing something useless (ANSWER)
d) none of the above

2. Mandy kept her things in apple pie order
a) in random order
b) related to fruits packing
c) related to dry fruit packing
d) in perfect order (ANSWER)

3. The football coach wanted his team to win the match by hook or by crook
a) by permission
b) by any means (ANSWER)
c) by noble means
d) by request

4. As he tumbled down the stairs, he had a very close shave,
a) very touching moment
b) a narrow escape (ANSWER)
c) nice service
d) bad service

Directions: In the following questions, substitute each sentence with a single word from among the given alternatives.

5. A man who rarely speaks the truth:
a) crook
c) scoundrel
b) liar (ANSWER)
d) hypocrite

6. The custom of having many wives:
a) misogamy
c) polygamy (ANSWER)
b) bigamy
d) monogamy

7. A doctor who treats skin diseases:
a) Cardiologist
c) Dentist
b) Dermatologist (ANSWER)
d) Pediatrician

8. Lasting only for a very short time:
a) transparent
c) temperate
b) temporal
d) temporary (ANSWER)

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is opposite in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives.

9. Protect
a) secure
c) defend
b) neglect (ANSWER)
d) save

10. Discovered
a) exposed
c) contended
b) concealed (ANSWER)
d) invented

11. Wide
a) spacious
c) narrow (ANSWER)
b) limited
d) large

12. Forsake
a) support (ANSWER)
b) abandon
c) care
d) sacrifice

Directions: In the following questions, choose a word that is most similar in meaning to the given word from among the given alternatives.

13. Specific
a) proper
b) uncommon
c) precise (ANSWER)
d) noteworthy

14. Prohibit
a) forbid (ANSWER)
b) forfeit
c) forsake
d) forbear

Directions: In the following questions, some sentences have errors and some do not. The underlined words are the key words where you can identify whether the sentence is erroneous or not. From the given set of choices, choose the correct alternative for the identified errors. Where there is no error, choose the specified option (d).

15. Having received your invitation this morning, I am writing to thank you for the same.
a) I will
c) I will be
b) I'm
d) No errors (ANSWER)

16. If you lend him a book, never will you get it back.
a) you never will
c) never you will
b) you will never (ANSWER)
d) No errors

17. It was him who came running into the classroom.
a) it was he (ANSWER)
c) it was this
b) he was one
d) No errors

Directions: In the following questions, the sentences have blank spaces followed by four alternative answers. Choose the correct alternative from the given choices.

18. I tried _________ the doctor, but my hands were numb.
a) to call (ANSWER - based on effort)
c) both (a) and (b)
b) calling
d) neither (a) nor (b)

19. Only then _________ understand what he meant.
a) I did
c) I
b) had I
d) did I (ANSWER)

20. I am interested _________ what she did with that money.
a) to see
c) in finding
b) in finding out (ANSWER)
d) to find

Directions: Read the following passage and answer the questions by choosing the correct option.

PASSAGE:
Mike and Morris lived in the same village. While Morris owned the largest jewelry shop in the village, Mike was a poor farmer. Both had large families with many sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren. One fine day, Mike, tired of not being able to feed his family, decided to leave the village and move to the city where he was certain to earn enough to feed everyone. Along with his family, he left the village for the city. At night, they stopped under a large tree. There was a stream running nearby where they could freshen up themselves. He told his sons to clear the area below the tree, he told his wife to fetch water and he instructed his daughters-in-law to make up the fire and started cutting wood from the tree himself. They didn't know that in the branches of the tree, there was a thief hiding. He watched as Mike's family worked together and also noticed that they had nothing to cook. Mike's wife also thought the same and asked her husband "Everything is ready but what shall we eat?" Mike raised his hands to heaven and said "Don't worry. He is watching all this from above. He will help us." The thief got worried as he had seen that the family was large and worked well together. Taking advantage of the fact that they did not know he was hiding in the branches, he decided to make a quick escape. He climbed down safely when they were not looking and ran for his life. But he left behind the bundle of stolen jewels and money which dropped into Mike's lap. Mike opened it and jumped with joy when he saw the contents. The family gathered all their belongings and returned to the village. There was great excitement when they told everyone how they got rich. Morris thought that the tree was miraculous and this was a nice and quick way to earn some money. He ordered his family to pack some clothes and they set off as if on a journey. They also stopped under the same tree and Morris started commanding everyone as Mike had done. But no one in his family was willing to obey his orders. Being a rich family, they were used to having servants all around. So, the one who went to the river to fetch water enjoyed a nice bath. The one who went to get wood for fire went off to sleep. Morris's wife said" Everything is ready but what shall we eat?" Morris raised his hands and said, "Don't worry. He is watching all this from above. He will help us." As soon as he finished saying this, the thief jumped down from the tree with a knife in hand. Seeing him, everyone started running here and there to save their lives. The thief stole everything they had and Morris and his family had to return to the village empty handed, having lost all their valuables that they had taken with them.

21. Why did Mike and his family decide to rest under the thief's tree?
a) Being a large family, they knew that they could easily defeat the thief
b) It was a convenient spot for making a halt at night (ANSWER)
c) There was a stream nearby and wood enough to build a house
d) That was the only large tree that could shelter their large family

22. Which of the following best describes Morris?
a) He was a rich businessman
b) He bullied his wife
c) He paid his servants well
d) He was greedy and imitated Mike (ANSWER)

23. What did Mike mean when he said "He is watching all this from above"?
a) He had spotted the thief and wanted to scare him
b) He was telling his wife to have faith in God (ANSWER)
c) It was just a warning for his family members to stick together
d) He was begging the thief to help his family

24. Why did the thief return to the tree?
a) To wait for Mike to return
b) To set up a trap
c) To wait for Morris's family (ANSWER - He was hiding there when Morris arrived)
d) Not mentioned in the passage

25. How did the fellow villagers react to Mike getting rich overnight?
a) They were jealous of him
b) They were very excited (ANSWER - "...great excitement when they told everyone...")
c) They followed his example
d) They envied him