PART-A-GENERAL ENGLISH
Marks: 150
Each question carries 2 marks:

Directions: (Q.No.1-5), A sentence has been given in Active/Passive voice. Out of the four alternatives suggested below, select the one which best expresses the same sentence in Passive/Active voice.

1. We waste much time on trifles.
   a) Much time was wasted on trifles
   b) Much time will be wasted on trifles
   c) Much time is wasted by us on trifles (ANSWER)
   d) Much time is wasted on trifles

2. How was it managed by you?
   a) How have you managed it?
   b) Did you manage it?
   c) How did you manage it ? (ANSWER)
   d) Was it managed by you ?

3. I was obliged to go.
   a) Circumstances obliges me to go
   b) Circumstances oblige I should go
   c) Circumstances oblige me to go
   d) Circumstances obliged me to go (ANSWER)

4. Do you understand what I mean?
   a) What I mean is understood by you?
   b) Was what I mean understood by you?
   c) Is what I mean understood by you? (ANSWER)
   d) What I mean is that understood by you?

5. The child's shrill wail broke the silence
   a) The silence is being broken by the child's shrill wail
   b) The child's shrill wail was broken by the silence
   c) The silence was broken by the child's shrill wail (ANSWER)
   d) The silence was being broken by the child's shrill wail

Directions: (Q.No.6-10), Rearrange the parts of the sentence in the correct order:

6. While we are learning equally
   P: a right to equal opportunity
   Q: all have not the same capacity
   R: meaning that we have
   a) RPQ (ANSWER - Note: The most logical order to complete the sentence is QRP, which is not an option. RPQ is chosen as the most plausible intended option among the flawed set.)
   b) RQP
   c) PQR
   d) QPR

7. During this period
   P: coal as a fuel
   Q: in place of wood
   R: people were beginning to use
   a) QRP
   b) PRQ
   c) RPQ (ANSWER)
   d) RQP

8. The sudden spell
   P: of showers washed out
   Q: the suspended particles from
   R: the air, a rare phenomenon in Delhi
   a) PQR (ANSWER)
   b) RPQ
   c) QPR
   d) RQP

9. Our body takes in many toxins from
   P: we eat, and we must have
   Q: a process for purging these impurities
   R: the atmosphere and the food
   a) PQR
   b) RPQ (ANSWER)
   c) QPR
   d) ROP

10. All animals have
    P: have memory
    Q: animals do not
    R: sensation but some
    a) QRP
    b) PRQ
    c) RQP (ANSWER)
    d) PQR

Directions: (Q.No.11-15), In the following passage, some of the words have been left out. Read the passage carefully and select the correct option for the given blank out of the four alternatives:

FULL PASSAGE:
We must remember that we cannot create a draconian state (11) order to end corruption. The moral transformation of civil society must be (12) and based on persuasive leadership. A (13) definition of a sustainable lifestyle must be voluntarily accepted. Only (14) will the competitive urge to make more and more money end. Money should become meaningful, moral and deeply (15). If true wealth is found in a rich heart, no one will want to touch money even with a barge pole.

11. draconian state (1) order to end corruption
    a) into
    b) so
    c) in (ANSWER)
    d) for

12. civil society must be (2) and based on
    a) nature
    b) natural
    c) naturally (ANSWER)
    d) naturism

13. A (3) definition of a sustainable lifestyle
    a) clearly
    b) clarity
    c) clarification
    d) clear (ANSWER)

14. Only (4) will the competitive urge
    a) than
    b) thus
    c) so
    d) then (ANSWER)

15. become meaningful, moral and deeply (5).
    a) satisfy
    b) satisfaction
    c) satisfactorily
    d) satisfying (ANSWER)

Directions: (Q.No.16-20), In the following questions, out of the four given alternatives, select one which best expresses the meaning of the given word:

16. Contrite
    a) Determined
    b) Specific
    c) Defiant
    d) Regretful (ANSWER)

17. Sole
    a) Important
    b) Only (ANSWER)
    c) Principal
    d) Main

18. Impeccable
    a) Remarkable
    b) Unbelievable
    c) Flawless (ANSWER)
    d) Displeasing

19. Presage
    a) Portend (ANSWER)
    b) Premise
    c) Postulate
    d) Presumption

20. Vicissitudes
    a) Assistance
    b) Alteration (ANSWER)
    c) Ascendancy
    d) Advantage

Directions: (Q.No.21-25), In the following questions, out of the four given alternatives, select the one which is opposite in meaning of the given word:

21. Boisterous
    a) Calm (ANSWER)
    b) Comfortable
    c) Good
    d) Happy

22. Sage
    a) Rogue
    b) Fool (ANSWER)
    c) Egoist
    d) Snob

23. Embellish
    a) Perish
    b) Disarm
    c) Dislodge
    d) Disfigure (ANSWER)

24. Baroque
    a) Florid
    b) Normal
    c) Empty
    d) Plain (ANSWER)

25. Dearth
    a) Abundance (ANSWER)
    b) Sufficiency
    c) Drought
    d) Paucity

Directions: (Q.No.26-35), Select the word that best expresses the meaning for the expression given:

26. A small village or a group of houses
    a) Community
    b) Settlement
    c) Hamlet (ANSWER)
    d) Colony

27. Failing to discharge one's duty
    a) Debacle
    b) Dereliction (ANSWER)
    c) Deterrant
    d) Delinquency

28. Person leading a life of strict self-discipline
    a) Hedonist
    b) Disciplinarian
    c) Ascetic (ANSWER)
    d) Martinet

29. Habitually silent or talking little
    a) Taciturn (ANSWER)
    b) Hew
    c) Unequivocal
    d) Servile

30. A person who sacrifices his life for a cause
    a) Soldier
    b) Revolutionary
    c) Martyr (ANSWER)
    d) Patriot

31. A group of crows
    a) Flock
    b) Pack
    c) Murder (ANSWER)
    d) Brood

32. To understand and mentally identify oneself with another person or thing
    a) Sympathy
    b) Empathy (ANSWER)
    c) Antipathy
    d) Pathetic

33. Present opposing arguments or evidence
    a) Rebuff
    b) Reprimand
    c) Rebut (ANSWER)
    d) Reiterate

34. A person who leaves his own native country and settles in another country
    a) Immigrant
    b) Emigrant (ANSWER)
    c) Migrant
    d) Settler

35. Code of diplomatic etiquette and precedence
    a) Statesmanship
    b) Showmanship
    c) Formalism
    d) Protocol (ANSWER)

Directions: (Q.No.36-40), In the following questions, four alternatives are given for the Idiom/Phrase. Choose the alternative which best expresses the meaning of the Idiom/Phrase.

36. Feather one's own nest
    a) work hard at home
    b) build a home
    c) make money for oneself in an improper way (ANSWER)
    d) decorate

37. Play ducks and drakes
    a) to lend
    b) to spend lavishly (ANSWER)
    c) to borrow
    d) to save

38. To keep in abeyance
    a) in a state of emergency
    b) in a state of revision
    c) in a state of permanence
    d) in a state of suspension (ANSWER)

39. In a pickle
    a) in a serious position
    b) in a difficult situation (ANSWER)
    c) in a sad situation
    d) in an embarrassing or awkward position

40. Bore down upon
    a) move quickly to the left
    b) move quickly to the right
    c) move quickly towards (ANSWER)
    d) move quickly backwards

Directions: (Q.No.41-50), In the following questions, one part of the sentence may have an error. Find out which part of the sentence has an error and choose the option corresponding to it. If the sentence is free from error, choose the "No error".

41. I forbid you not to go there again
    a) not to go (ANSWER)
    b) I forbid you
    c) there again
    d) no error

42. A cup of coffee is an excellent complement to smoked salmon.
    a) to smoked salmon
    b) a cup of coffee
    c) is an excellent complement
    d) no error (ANSWER)

43. I called at his house yesterday and have given him money.
    a) at his house yesterday
    b) and have given him money (ANSWER)
    c) I called
    d) no error

44. Not much people realize his sincerity.
    a) his sincerity
    b) people realize
    c) not much (ANSWER)
    d) no error

45. This group of rural achievers is very different than the ones in the past.
    a) the ones in the past
    b) is very different than (ANSWER)
    c) this group of rural achievers
    d) no error

46. According to one survey only those forests which were not under village management succumbed from fires recently.
    a) according to one survey only
    b) those forests which were not under
    c) village management succumbed from fires recently (ANSWER)
    d) no error

47. He lay his luggage aside and lay down to rest for a while.
    a) he lay his luggage (ANSWER)
    b) aside and lay down
    c) to rest for a while
    d) no error

48. Would you please order for tea and biscuits for all of us?
    a) would you please order
    b) for tea and biscuits (ANSWER)
    c) for all of us
    d) no error

49. After the teacher had told the boys how to pronounce the word all of them in one voice repeated the word again
    a) after the teacher had told the boys how to
    b) pronounce the word all of them
    c) in one voice repeated the word again (ANSWER)
    d) no error

50. I declined the invitation not because I did not want to go but because I have no time.
    a) I declined the invitation
    b) not because I did not want to go
    c) but because I have no time (ANSWER)
    d) no error

Directions: (Q.No.51-56), In the following questions, out of the four alternatives select the option which will improve the sentence. In case no improvement is needed, select 'No Improvement'.

51. They only work when they have no money
    a) When they have no money, they only work
    b) They only work they have no money
    c) They work only when they have no money (ANSWER)
    d) No improvement

52. He had hardly gone out then it began to rain
    a) He had hardly gone out before it began to rain
    b) He had hardly gone out when it began to rain (ANSWER)
    c) He had hardly gone out as it began to rain
    d) No improvement

53. He is the bravest of the two soldiers
    a) He is the braver of the two soldiers (ANSWER)
    b) He is the bravest between the two soldiers
    c) He is the bravest than the two soldiers
    d) No improvement

54. We have no less than a thousand students in our College
    a) We have not less than a thousand students in our College
    b) We have no fewer than a thousand students in our College (ANSWER)
    c) We have no little than a thousand students in our College
    d) No improvement

55. It is predicted that oil reserves will finished by 2034.
    a) It is predicted that oil reserves will have finish by 2034
    b) It is predicted that oil reserves will finish by 2034 (ANSWER)
    c) It is predicted that oil reserves should finish by 2034
    d) No improvement

56. Hardly had he reached home when the telephone rang.
    a) Hardly he reached home when the telephone rang
    b) Hardly he had reached home when the telephone rang
    c) Hardly did he reach home when the telephone rang
    d) No improvement (ANSWER)

Directions: (Q.No.57-61), Read the following passage and answer the questions:

FULL PASSAGE:
Nature writing is nonfiction or fiction prose or poetry about the natural environment. Nature writing encompasses a wide variety of works, ranging from those that place primary emphasis on natural history facts (such as field guides) to those in which philosophical interpretation predominate. It includes natural history essays, poetry, essays of solitude or escape, as well as travel and adventure writing. Nature writing often draws heavily on scientific information and facts about the natural world; at the same time, it is frequently written in the first person and incorporates personal observations of and philosophical reflections upon nature. Modern nature writing traces its roots to the works of natural history that were popular in the second half of the 18th century and throughout the 19th. An important early figure was the "parson-naturalist" Gilbert White (1720-1793), a pioneering English naturalist and ornithologist. He is best known for his Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne (1789).

57. Nature writing emphasizes on
    i) Historical facts about nature
    ii) Philosophical interpretations of nature
    iii) Scientific information and facts
    Choose the correct option:
    a) none of the above
    b) only (i) and (ii)
    c) all of the above (ANSWER)
    d) only (i) and (iii)

58. Based on the passage what is period to which the modern nature writing can be traced to
    a) 1850 till 1999
    b) 1850 to 1899
    c) 1750 till 1899 (ANSWER)
    d) 1750 till 1900

59. Which statement summarizes the above passage?
    a) The passage talks about the life and lessons of Gilbert White, a profound naturalist and ornithologist.
    b) The passage talks about how the nature writing is missing in the modern era and needs to be revived.
    c) The passage talks about from where the writers draw inspiration for nature writing, and how its importance is diminishing in the modern era.
    d) The passage talks about what is nature writing, the different types of nature writing, its style, and about the roots and pioneer of modern nature writing. (ANSWER)

60. Which word aptly describes the word "reflections" as used in the passage?
    a) Opinion (ANSWER)
    c) Images
    b) Reproduction
    d) None of the above

61. According to the passage, what kinds of works are written as part of nature writing?
    i) Natural history essays and essays of solitude or escape
    ii) Poetry
    iii) Travel and adventure writing
    Choose the correct option:
    a) only (i)
    b) only (i) and (ii)
    c) only (ii) and (iii)
    d) all of the above (ANSWER)

Directions: (Q.No.62-66), In each of the following sentences there is a blank space. Below each such sentence there are four options with one word each. Choose the option that will make the sentence contextually and grammatically correct:

62. It is desirable to take ______ in any business if you want to make profit
    a) advice
    b) risk (ANSWER)
    c) loan
    d) recourse

63. Today students should be reconciled ______ the way things are changing.
    a) with
    b) to (ANSWER)
    c) for
    d) all

64. My sister and ______ are pleased to accept your invitation.
    a) I (ANSWER)
    b) me
    c) myself
    d) I myself

65. The government must ______ all resources of energy.
    a) collect
    b) gather
    c) muster
    d) harness (ANSWER)

66. The police are ______ with enforcement of law and order.
    a) responsible
    b) deputed
    c) entrusted (ANSWER)
    d) accountable

Directions: (Q.No.67-69), In the following questions, four words are given out of which one word is spelt correctly. Select the correctly spelt word.

67. a) Allegience
    b) Alegiance
    c) Allegiance (ANSWER)
    d) Allegaince

68. a) Hypocrate
    b) Hypocrite (ANSWER)
    c) Hipocrite
    d) Hypocrete

69. a) Definitly
    b) Definitely (ANSWER)
    c) Definately
    d) Definatly

Directions: (Q.No.70-75), In the following questions below, a sentence is given in Direct/Indirect speech. From the given alternatives choose the one which best expresses the given sentence in Indirect/Direct speech:

70. He said to me. "What is it you have done?
    a) He asked me that what is it you have done
    b) He asked me what it is I had done
    c) He asked me what it was I had done (ANSWER)
    d) He asked me what it was I have done

71. She said to him, "I have often told you this story."
    a) She said to him that I have often told you this story
    b) She told him that she has often told him that story
    c) She told him that she have often told him the story
    d) She told him that she had often told him that story (ANSWER)

72. Kala said to Radha, "Who were you speaking to over the phone?"
    a) Kala asked Radha that who she was speaking to over the phone
    b) Kala asked Radha that who she has been speaking to over the phone
    c) Kala asked Radha who she had been speaking to over the phone (ANSWER)
    d) Kala asked Radha that who she had been speaking to over the phone

73. "Have you finished your work, Ahmad?". asked Vinod.
    a) Vinod asked whether Ahmad had finished your work
    b) Vinod asked whether Ahmad had finished work
    c) Vinod asked whether Ahmad had finished their work
    d) Vinod asked Ahmad whether he had finished his work (ANSWER)

74. He exclaimed with joy that their team had won the tournament.
    a) He exclaimed. "Hurrah! Our team has won the tournament." (ANSWER)
    b) He said, "Our team won the tournament."
    c) He said, "Wow! Our team won the tournament."
    d) He said, "Alas! Our team won the tournament."

75. The young man promised her that he would be there the next day.
    a) The young man said, "I will be there the next day."
    b) The young man said. "I promise to be here tomorrow." (ANSWER)
    c) The young man said, "I will promise to be there the next day."
    d) The young man said. "Promise. I will be here today.